Who is behind Ghini
..............................................

Ghini started as a one-man project, by Brett Adams. He wrote Bauble for the
Belize Botanical Garden, and later on adapted it for a couple of other users
who asked him to use it. Brett made Bauble a commons, by releasing it under
a GPL license.

After some years of stagnation Mario Frasca took responsibility of updating
Bauble, renamed it to Ghini in order to mark the difference in activity
level, and it is now Mario Frasca writing this, enhancing the software,
looking for users, requesting feedback...

So even if currently behind Ghini there's again one developer, much more
importantly, there is a small but growing global users community.

Translations are provided by volunteers who mostly stay behind the scenes,
translating a couple of missing terms or sentences, and disappearing again.

To make things clearer when we speak of Ghini, but should—and in this
document we will—indicate whether it's Ghini(the software), or Ghini(the
people), unless obviously we mean both things.

Mission
..............................................

To continuously support open and free software for the documentation,
research and management of biodiversity collections, for the benefit of
organizations and educational institutions that have or manage botanical
collections. For example botanical gardens, arboretums, herbaria, but also
for people studying or working with such collections.

To stimulate users to contributing to the improvement of the software and
sharing solutions; to enhance the availability and visibility of such
biodiversity collections.

Vision
..............................................

The Vision serves to indicate the way ahead and projects a future image of
what we want our organization to be, in a realistic and attractive way.  It
serves as motivation because it visualizes the challenge and direction of
necessary changes in order to grow and prosper.

* by the year 2020 
* reference point
* community
* development
* integration with web portal
* geographic information

